.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH PTEST 1 "MAY 2007" ptest "User Manual"
.SH NAME
ptest \- Classify sequences using a trained classifier.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ptest
.I [options]
.I serialized-classifier.txt
.I input.txt
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read a trained classifier and a set of sequences and apply the classifier to
each sequence of the set.  A confusion matrix and total classification loss is
given for the input set.
.SH PARAMETERS
.IP "--confusion-matrix <file>"
Write a confusion matrix for the sequence set to the given file.
.IP "--dump-classifier <file>"
Write a textual description of the serialized classifier.
.SH INPUT FILE FORMAT
The input file consists of n lines, each containing a filename and a class
label, separated by any whitespace character.  The filename corresponds to a
sequence file.  If only two classes are considered, the class labels are "1"
and "-1", for the positive and negative class, respectively.  If more classes
are considered, the first class is labeled "0", and the following classes "1",
"2", etc.

Each sequence file consists of p lines, each line representing one sequence
element.  Each element contains a number of items (positive integer
numbers), separated by whitespace characters.  The items within each element
must be ordered and contain no duplicate item.
.SH BUGS
No bugs known, if you find any, please send a bug report to me. I will try to
fix it.
.SH AUTHOR
Sebastian Nowozin <sebastian.nowozin@tuebingen.mpg.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pboost (1),
.BR pspan (1)
